What inspired me was my two older sisters
swam when I was little and I wanted to be
like them. I always wanted to follow in their
footsteps and my mum and dad took me along
to learn to swim anyway. They wanted me to
learn to swim for when we go on holiday and
my two older sisters swam and I just wanted
to beat them. I was the baby and I wanted
to do what they were doing and I just wanted
to beat them really.
My dad was my biggest inspiration and my
biggest encouragement as well. Obviously
with swimming we start at 4.30 in the morning,
which means, at that age, dad has to get
up and take you to swimming. So I think,
without him getting up and driving early,
I would never have done it.
I first started sport when I was three, when
I started swimming. My dad thought it a great
idea, because we lived by the sea, to learn
to swim. There’s been lots of inspirational
people in my life that I have looked up to,
people like the Olympic greats like Sir Steve
Redgrave, Dame Tanni Grey-Thompson, Olympic
heroes. Anyone like that, you always try and
aspire to be like them.
Quite a lot of people that stand out like
Kelly Holmes who worked for so many years
to achieve the top of her game. That inspires
me a lot. I also like people like Usain Bolt,
because of his great personality. He doesn’t
take himself too seriously, and I’d like
to be a bit like that.
When I first came onto the British team,
Steve Redgrave was still rowing, so I saw
him and Matthew Pinsent. The men’s four
was building up to the Sydney Olympics, which
was my first Olympic Games, so along with
Tim and James they were leading towards the
race, which could potentially be Steve’s
fifth Olympic gold medal. I suppose seeing
the way all of them trained, competed, the
focus, the dedication, the life that they
were creating around them, was really inspiring
to see and be part of. I guess it was leading
the way for all of us, and set the levels
of what was possible for the British team.
I motivated myself, I got myself back into
sport with the help of my parents, my brother,
all the friends I had in school. It was just
something we all had in common. When I lost
my legs, it was like right, what can we all
still do together? Still played football,
rugby with my friends, sitting on the floor
as goalkeeper, scooting myself around with
a rugby ball in my hands at 9-10 years old.
My friends who I grew up with through school,
are dead supportive. I’ve got a friend,
if I ever wanted to take drugs or go out
drinking, she’d probably slap me!
Many of the reasons why I got into athletics
were because of the influential figures,
who weren’t always paralympic. They used
to be able-bodied figures when I was younger.
Nowadays, the three main influential figures
I have are probably Asafa Powell, Usain Bolt
and Tyson Gay. I admire Asafa Powell for
his intensity of the sport and how hard he
tries. And Tyson Gay has amazing technique,
it’s really precise, really cut finely.
And I admire Usain Bolt for his attitude,
because when most people expect sprinters
to be very serious people on the line, Usain
Bolt tends to inject a bit of fun. Sport is
not just sport, it’s a form of entertainment.
He provides that form of entertainment that
we all enjoy and love.
I can always remember watching athletics
on the tv. I remember coming down to Don
Valley and watching one of the big championships
here when I was younger. I remember watching
Linford Christie and Mick Hill throw the
javelin, Sally Gunnell, all those amazing
athletes from that era. I remember thinking
it’s a great sport to be part of, and pictured
myself being at that level one day.There’s
nothing more exciting than walking in front
of 25,000 people, and knowing that they’re
there to watch you race. For that how-ever-long-that-may-be
you are the centre of attention. That’s
quite exciting.The best thing about boxing
and competing is the feeling after you’ve
just fought. The best feeling in the world.
I only know what it feels like to win, so
I think, if I lost, I think it would be a
totally different story.
I probably prefer being in a crew boat with
other people. When it’s two of you, it
is that intensity of being in a marriage.
You go through huge highs and huge lows together.
You are locked together, you’re completely
dependent on each other. There’s nowhere
to hide. When it doesn’t go well, you have
to get through that together. When it does
go well, it’s probably the most intimate
thing you can be in sport.
I’ve been with my coach for 8-9 years now,
he’s always been there for me, he’s the
one that keeps me motivated, he’s there
through the good and bad times. He knows
how to push me, which is a good thing, so
he is definitely the biggest inspiration.
My parents have followed me all around the
world with my athletics career, with my sledge
hockey career, and especially with swimming.
Same with my brother, he’s always been
there to help, to help my father, making
my throwing frames, helping with hockey sledges,
great support in all aspects in my life and
in my sport.
I have a coach called Lee Pung; he’s a
Chinese diver; he’s coached the world champions,
the Olympic champions. So it’s interesting
to see his perspective on things.
I personally draw inspiration from my injury,
it’s something that really helps me through
tough training sessions. That was a really
difficult time in my career, and I just think
back to those days when I wasn’t able to
run, I had to stay at home and miss out on
competitions and ultimately get left behind
a little bit. When I think about those days,
it really encourages me and makes me feel
really thankful for what I’ve got, the
ability to run. That keeps me motivated.
There are some days; yesterday I had to roll
out of bed at 8, which is early on a Saturday
morning, I had to drag myself to the gym
and push through my session, that’s when
it feels like a job. But a lot of the time,
when there are people around encouraging and
pushing you, reminding you of what you’re
there for, that’s when it’s a passion.Things
have inspired me along the way, hearing other
people’s stories of how they’ve got on
in sports. Especially David Roberts, the
fact that he’s won the same amount of medals
as Tanni Grey-Thompson; it’s an absolutely
amazing medal haul. I want to get to that
stage where I can call myself the greatest
paralympic athlete in the field of throwing.
The first time I walked into the Olympic
stadium, I was carrying the flag praying
that I didn’t fall over live on national
television and the stadium was full. So,
it’s a little different seeing 100,000 people
while carrying a flag, concentrating on not
falling over. It’s an amazing thing, probably
the highlight of my career. It’s a massive
honour to be asked to carry your nation’s
flag.
When you’re having a bad day, you’ve
got to keep in the back of your mind the
London 2012, the fact it’s in our country.
That does motivate you and spurs you on every
time you go into a training session, you think
of the bigger picture really.
My ultimate dream is to start on the start
line at 2012 at our home Olympics, to perform
at my ultimate peak and to win a gold medal.
I would be absolutely over the moon if that
happened!